---
title: Res epreuves
---

::alert{type=info}
Provides a quick overview of the results of the selected academic subjects and skills of the schoold board as well as comparison with the results of the ministerial exams.
::

# Deployment

:badge[tag:res_epreuves]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.19.0]

## Database

The gpi database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/databases) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Dbt project specification

> Update your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet.

1. Enabling models and dashboards from the core repo

```yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
  core_dashboards_store: # Enable the models from the core repo
    marts:
      educ_serv:
        +enabled: True
    dashboards:
      educ_serv:
        res_epreuves:
          +enabled: True
    interfaces:
      gpi:
        +enabled: True
      jade:
        +enabled: True
```

1. Setting the `cod_css` variable
   ::alert{type=warning}
   The `cod_css` variable is requiered to filter down the results fetched from the Jade tables by to exclude students from other CSS. This variable MUST be set for the dashboard to work correctly.
   ::

```yaml
#cssXX.data.dbe/dbt_project.yml
vars:
  # res_epreuves's dashboard variables:
  dashboards:
    res_epreuves:
      cod_css: ###% -- The first three characters of your schoolboard. Formatted as a SQL regex. E.g. '001%' for CSS001
```

# configuration

## Adding local exams

::alert{type=warning}
The configuration is optional. If you do not provide a configuration, the dashboard will use the default configuration.
::

- To add a list of local exams to follow in the dashboard:

  1. Add a `.csv` file in your `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashbaords/res_epreuves` folder. The file should be named `rstep_epreuves_personnalisees`. The file should be filled with the columns described in `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/res_epreuves/schema.yml` (which describes the seed `rstep_epreuves_personnalisees`).

  2. Trigger a refresh of your seeds

```bash
dbt seed --full-refresh
```

## Adding ministerial data

::alert{type=warning}
This configuration is optional but strongly advised. If you do not provide the charlemagne data, the part of the unique exams of the dashboard will not display any data.
::

::alert{type=info}
The following procedure describes how you can add the ministerial data to the dashboard. The procedure is the same for each session you want to follow in the dashboard. It must be done manually for each session as the data cannot be automatically fetched from the database. The procedure is tad cumberstome and you will need to use the Excel file `fichier_traitement.xlsm` to consolidate the data from the different sessions into a single `.csv` file.

This file can be found in the folder `core.dashboards_store/analyses/dashboards/res_epreuves`.
::

- To add the regional and provincial unique exams data to the dashboard:

  1. You need to run the Charlemagne reports `CHS040509R - Statistiques provisoires des résultats d'épreuves uniques` of all the sessions for all the years you want to follow in the dashboard.
  2. You must then save them in a single folder where there would be only these `XML` files.
  3. Use the file `fichier_traitement.xlsm`, which is located in the folder (`/analyses/dashboards/res_epreuves`) to consolidate the various `XML` files from the different sessions into a single `.csv` file.
  4. Save the consolidated file in the folder `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/res_epreuves` under the name `fichier_consolide_epreuves_ministerielles`.
  5. Trigger a refresh of your seeds.
  6. redo the steps to add the data for each session.
