---
title: Students results monitoring
---

::alert{type=info}
> Monitor the grades of students (s1 to s3) in maths and french . The dashboard displays, for each students currently enrolled in s1 to s3, the history of it's grades for all courses belonging to the same group of courses (maths or french). The dashboard conditionally renders the student status. Only the last grade for a given course code is taken into considerations.
::

# Deployment
:badge[tag:suivi_resultats]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.7.0]

## Database 

The `GPI` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.


## DBT project specification
> Update your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet and add the `cod_css` variable.

1. Enabling the models
```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models: 
  store:
    marts:
        educ_serv:
            +enabled: True        
    dashboards: 
      suivi_resultats:
        +enabled: True
    interfaces:
      gpi:
        +enabled: True
```

2. Setting a custom `cod_css`
::alert{type=warning}
cod_css will be used to filter Jade table by the organisation code to exclude student belonging to other CSS. This variable **MUST** be set for the dashboard to work.
::

```yaml
#cssXX.data.dbe/dbt_project.yml
vars:
    # res_epreuves's dashboard variables:
    res_epreuves:
        cod_css: ###% --the first 3 digits of your organization code
```

# configuration
::alert{type=warning}
The configuration is optional. If you don't provide a configuration, the dashboard will use the default configuration.
::

## Overriding the default list of tracked courses
> By default, the dashboard will only monitor the courses listed in `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/suivi_resultats/tracked_courses.csv`

You can provide your own implementation of `tracked_courses`. To do so :
1. Write a CSV file named `tracked_courses` in the `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/suivi_resultats` folder populated as per the `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/suivi_resultats/schema.yml`'s definition.

2. Disable the default seed by using the the following snippet in your `dbt_project.yml` file : 

```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
seeds:
  store:
    dashboards:
      suivi_resultats:
        tracked_courses:
          +enabled: False
```

__When overriding the tracked courses, you might want to override the tracked level as well.__

## Overriding the default list of tracked levels
> This step is optional. By default, the dashboard will only monitor the students currently enrolled in the livels listed in `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/suivi_resultats/tracked_level.csv`

You can provide you own list of `tracked_levels`. If, for instance, you add a new tracked course in sec 4, you will want to add the level 4 to the list of tracked levels. To do so, just write a CSV file named `tracked_levels` in the `cssXX.dashbaords_store/seeds/dashboards/suivi_resultats` folder and disable the default one by adding the following line in your `dbt_project.yml` file.

```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
seeds:
  store:
    dashboards:
      suivi_resultats:
        tracked_levels:
          +enabled: False
```
