---
title: Students headcount
---

::alert{type=warning}
Tracks a defined population within a school service centre. The dashboard shows the number of total students in each school.
::

# Deployment

:badge[tag:effectif_css]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.7.0]

## Databases

The `gpi` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/databases) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Marts

The following marts must be enabled for the dashboard to work. Please refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information about how to enable a mart.

- `educ_serv`

#### Dbt project specification

> Update your `cssxx_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet

```yaml
# cssXX.data.store/dbt_project.yml
models:
  core_dashboards_store:
    marts:
      educ_serv:
        +enabled: True
    dashboards:
      effectif_css:
        +enabled: true
    interfaces:
      gpi:
        +enabled: true
```


## Splitting the regular preschool students from the Passe-Partout students

You can configure the dashboard to split the regular preschool students from the Passe-Partout students. 
This is done by populating an `sql` file identifying the passe-partout students.
By default, no student is identified as a passe-partout student. To do so, you need to override the `stg_check_passepartout` model in your project, and provide your own custom logic to identify the students.
The documentation, for the `stg_check_passepartout` can be found in `core/models/dashboards/educ_serv/effectif_css/staging/stg_check_passepartout.sql` file and in `core/models/dashboards/educ_serv/effectif_css/staging/schema.yml` file.

Starting from v0.1.8, the `stg_check_passepartout` model is prepopulated as part of spining a fresh project from the cookiecutter template.