---
title: Students absenteism
---

::alert{type=info}
Display general metrics about the student's absenteeism as view through the number of days with at least one absence.
::

# Deployment 
:badge[tag:chronic_absenteeism]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.7.0]

## Databases 

The `gpi` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Marts 

The following marts must be enabled for the dashboard to work. Please refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information about how to enable a mart.
* `educ_serv`

## Dbt project specification
> Update your `cssxx.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet.

```yaml
# cssxx.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
    store:
        marts:
            educ_serv:
                +enabled: True                  
        dashboards:                                   
            chronic_absenteeism:
                +enabled: True
        interfaces:
            gpi:
                +enabled: True
```

# Configuration
::alert{type=warning}
The configuration is optional. If you don't provide a configuration, the dashboard will use the default configuration.
::

::alert{info}
To configuring the dashboard you might need to do some overriding> If the concept is new to you, please read [this page](/using/configuration/overriding)
::

## Customizing the default calendar
::alert{warning}
This is the most probable configuration you will need to do. Make sure the default grille params ('A', '1') works for you. If not, customize it.
::

::alert{danger}
Because of reasons, the parameter schould always be written down as a tuple of quoted values, even if you only have one value.
::

A calendar is used to determine the days of student mandatory attendance. The ETL fetch the calendar from the `gpm_t_cal` table. By default, the Store use the calendar days identified by the following clause : `Where grille in ('1', 'A')`. If you need to pass another set of condition, you can do so by setting the following variable in your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file :

```yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
vars:
  marts:
    educ_serv:
      absences:
        grille: <your tuple of values>
```

### Setting the default calendar to a unique value

``` yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
vars: 
  marts:
    educ_serv:
      absences:
        grille: ('b')
```

## Overriding the absences bracketing strategy
> By default, the dashboard will group up absences using the brackets from `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboard/schronic_absenteeism/repartition_brackets.csv`

To get a custom bracketing strategy, you can provide your own implementation of `repartition_brackets`. To do so :
1. Write a CSV file named `repartition_brackets` in the `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/chronic_absenteeism` folder populated as per the `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/chronic_absenteism/schema.yml`'s definition.
2. Disable the default seed by using the the following snippet in your `dbt_project.yml` file : 

```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
seeds:
  store:
    dashboards:
      chronic_absenteeism:
        repartition_brackets:
          +enabled: False
```

__When overriding the repartition bracket, you will need to manualy update the `lorenz` measures from the Dahsboard's concentration page.__

## Filtering the absences / lateness of students or using arbitrary grouping of absences / lateness
> By default, the dashboards split the metrics between `absences` and `lateness`. The dashboard does not distinguish between motivated and the non-motivated reasons of absences.

To manually exclude some lateness / absences reasons, you can override the `core.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/staging/absences/stg_dim_absences_retards_inclusion.sql`.

To override this file, just provide your own implementation of `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/staging/absences/stg_dim_absences_retards_inclusion.sql` and disable the one from the core by adding this following snippet to your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` :

```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
  store:
    marts:
      educ_serv:
        staging:
          absences:
            stg_dim_absences_retards_inclusion:
              +enabled: False
```


### Filtering out the lateness from the dashboard
> This is an example : you might need to tailor this script to your own needs

```sql
-- cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/staging/absences/stg_dim_absences_retards_inclusion.sql
select 
    id_eco, 
    motif_abs,
    descr as description_abs,
    case 
        when cpt_abs in (1, 2) then 'absence'
        else null -- Test hook.
    end as category_abs 
from {{ ref("i_gpm_t_motif_abs") }}
where 
  cpt_abs is not null and
  cpt_abs != 3 
group by
    id_eco,
    motif_abs,
    descr
```

### Splitting the absences between motivated and non-motivated ones
> This is an example : you might need to tailor this script to your own needs

```sql
-- cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/staging/absences/stg_dim_absences_retards_inclusion.sql
select 
    id_eco, 
    motif_abs,
    descr as description_abs,
    case 
        when cpt_abs = 1 then 'absence motivée'
        when cpt_abs = 2 then 'absence non-motivée' 
        when cpt_abs = 3 then 'retard' 
        else null -- Test hook.
    end as category_abs 
from {{ ref("i_gpm_t_motif_abs") }}
where 
  cpt_abs is not null
group by
    id_eco,
    motif_abs,
    descr
```
