---
title: Academic results
---

::alert{type=info}
Provides a quick overview of the results of the selected academic subjects and skills of the schoold board.
::

# Deployment
:badge[tag:res_scolaires]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.7.0]

## Databases

The `gpi` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Marts 

The following marts must be enabled for the dashboard to work. Please refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information about how to enable a mart.
* `educ_serv`

## Dbt project specification
> Update your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet.

```yaml
models:
  store: # Enable the models from the core repo
    marts:
        educ_serv:
            +enabled: True                  
    dashboards:                                   
        res_scolaires:
            +enabled: True
    interfaces: # The dashboard only needs the GPI database
        gpi:
            +enabled: True
```  

# configuration
::alert{type=warning}
The configuration is optional. If you don't provide a configuration, the dashboard will use the default configuration.
::

## Customizing the tracked subjects
> Update your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file.
> This table needs some seeds. Make sure to run `dbt seed --full-refresh` to populate the seeds.

* To add a list of in-house subjects to be tracked :
  1. Add a `.csv` file in your `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/res_scolaires` folder. The file must be named `custom_matiere.csv`. The file must be populated with the colums described by `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/res_scolaires/schema.yml` (refers to the `custom_matiere` seed). 

  2. Trigger a refresh of your seeds 

```bash
dbt seed --full-refresh
```

## Setting a custom `threshold`
> The threshold is used to compute the identify the overachieving students. It is set to 70% by default.

You can override the default threshold by adding the following variable in your `dbt_project.yml` file.

```yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
vars:
    # res_scolaires's dashboard variables:
    res_scolaires:
        threshold: 70
```