---
title: PEVR
---

::alert{type=warning}
Tracks common and custom PEVR indicators. 
::
::alert{type=danger}
The dashboard is a Work-in-progress. it's a stub built as an incentive for people to jump on the project. We advise against deploying the dashboard as is
::
# Deployment
:badge[tag:pevr]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.10.0]

## Databases

The `gpi` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Marts 

The following marts must be enabled for the dashboard to work. Please refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information about how to enable a mart.
* `educ_serv`


#### Dbt project specification
> Update your `cssxx_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet

```yaml
# cssXX.data.store/dbt_project.yml
models: 
  store:
    marts:
        educ_serv:
            +enabled: True 
    dashboards:
        pevr:
            +enabled: true
    interfaces:
      gpi:
        +enabled: true
```
# configuration
::alert{type=warning}
The configuration is optional. If you don't provide a configuration, the dashboard will use the default configuration.
::

## Customizing pevr indicator
> This table needs some seeds. Make sure to run `dbt seed --full-refresh` to populate the seeds.

* To add a list of in-house indicators to be tracked :
  1. Add a `.csv` file in your `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/pevr` folder. The file must be named `custom_indicateurs_pevr.csv`. The file must be populated with the colums described in `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/pevr/schema.yml` (refers to the `custom_indicateurs_pevr` seed). 
  1. Add a `.csv` file in your `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/pevr` folder. The file must be named `custom_indicateurs_pevr_matiere.csv`. The file must be populated with the colums described in `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/pevr/schema.yml` (refers to the `custom_indicateurs_pevr_matiere` seed).   
  2. Trigger a refresh of your seeds 

```bash
dbt seed --full-refresh
```

::alert{type=info}
Please refer to the [seeds](/using/marts/seeds) section for more information about how to use and populate seeds.
::
