---
title: Diplôme
---

::alert{type=info}
Monitors secondary 5 students on the possibility of obtaining a secondary school diploma under the J5 system
::

::alert{type=danger}
This dashboards requiers the models from Sciance to be available.
::


# Deployment 
:badge[tag:diplome]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.11.0]

## Databases 

The `GPI` and `Jade` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Seed

::alert{type=warning}
A `seed` is requiered for the dashboard to work.
::

The dashboard needs the `matiere_evalue` seed to be available. Please refer to the [seeding](/using/configuration/adapts-seeds) section for more information about how to seed a mart. The seed is required in order to populate the sanctioned subjects. Since you won't need to override it, you can simply run this command to create the seed: dbt seed --select +tag:diplome
The seed is discribed in `core.dashboards_store/seeds/dashboards/diplome/schema.yml`.

## Marts

The following marts must be enabled for the dashboard to work. Please refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information about how to enable a mart.
* `educ_serv`

## Overriding

The dashboard use multiple filter that might not fit your needs. In this case, you will need to override the whole PEVR folder. Please, refer to the override section if needed.

## Dbt project specification
> Update your `cssxx.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet.

```yaml
# cssxx.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
    store:
        dashboards:
            diplome:
                +enabled: True
        interfaces:
            gpi:
                +enabled: True
            jade:
                +enabled: True

vars:
  database_gpi: "The name / IP of the gpi database"
  database_jade: "The name / IP of the jade database"
```
