---
title: Running the ETL
---

# Introduction
DBT has a built-on orchestrator that allows you to run the ETL. Only the enabled (thoose with the weird `+enabled: true` syntax) models will be run. As all models are disabled by default (the store is lazy), only the models/dashboards manually toogle will be run.

## How to run the store
::alert{type=warning}
All DBT commands schould be called from the `cssXX.dashboards_store` project. 
**BEFORE** calling a DBT command from `cssXX.dashboards_store`, make sure you have activated the Poetry environement by running `poetry env activate && poetry install` from `core.dashboards_store`.
::

::alert{type=info}
To get a complete list of the available options, run `dbt --help`  or, got to the official [dbt documentation](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run)
::

The base command to run and test the store is the following : 

```bash
dbt build
```

The base command is a faster alternative to manually running the following commands : 

```bash
dbt compile
dbt seed
dbt run
dbt test
```

### I have ... special needs :

#### I need to reload the seeds' definitions 

add the `--full-refresh` option

```bash
dbt build --full-refresh  # Build can be replaced by run.
```

#### I want to materialize the transformations in another environment than the default one (ie, other than `default target` as defined in `~/.dbt/profiles.yml`)

If you want to target another environment that the default one, use the `--target` option. you will need this to materialize the store in production.

```bash
dbt build --target prod  # Build can be replaced by every other dbt command such as seed or test.
```

#### I want to run only a specific SQL file

If you want to only run a specific SQL file, use the `--select` option. 

```bash
dbt build --select <sql_file_name>  # The name of the model is the name of the file WITHOUT the `.sql` extension.
```

#### I want to run only a specific dashboards

if you want to only run the models from a specific mart or for a specific dashboards, use the `--select +tag:<model>` option. 

```bash
dbt build --select tag:<name of the dashboard> # Where name of the dashboard is the same as the one from dbt_project.yaml
```

::alert{type=info}
Please consult `core.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yaml` to find the tag of the model you want to run
::


#### About the `+` selector and the `--select` statement
::alert{type=info}
You *probably* need the + selector to run the models when using the `--select` statement. 
::

If you want to run both a models and its upstream dependancies, use the `+` selector. This is usually required since the models are dependant on the seeds and the seeds are dependant on the sources. 

```bash
dbt build --select +tag:<name of the dashboard> # Where name of the dashboard is the same as the one from dbt_project.yaml
```
or

```bash
dbt build --select +<name of a mode> # Where name of the dashboard is the same as the one from dbt_project.yaml
```

