---
title: Production checklist
---

# Production checklist

::list{type="success"}
- My `cssXX.dashboards_store` is using Git
- The dashboards iI have deployed are versionned in `cssXX.dashboards_store`. 
- Pushing to `cssXX.dashboards_store` triggers a CI/CD pipeline that builds a Docker image based on the one from `core.dashboards_store`. My ETL is dockerized.
- I run my dockerized ETL using a `cronjob` or the `core.dashboards_store/tooling/depechecode/DAG.py` DAG.
::

## Using version control
Version control is a must have when working with a team. It allows you to track changes, revert to previous versions, and collaborate on projects with your team members. We advise you to install and use git in your `cssXX.dashboards_store`. 

Every dashboard you deploy schould be versioned in your `cssXX.dashboards_store`. This will allow you to track changes and revert to previous versions if needed. 

## Using pinned dependencies
::alert{type=warning}
When shipping to production (and stagging), always pin the version of the `core.dashboards_store` your `cssXX.dashboards_store` depends on.
::

To pin a specific version, update your `cssXX.dashboards_store`
`packages.yml` file with the following snippet :

```yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/packages.yml
packages:
  - git: git@github.com:Sciance-Inc/core.dashboards_store.git
    revision: <release_number>
```

Where `<release_number>` is the version you want to pin to (for instance, `v0.7.0+20230926`).

## Using a CI/CD pipeline

You can build a CI/CD pipeline to automate the deployment of your dashboards. The `core.dashboards_store/tooling/depechecode/Dockerfile` describes a Docker image packaging the core you can leverage to build the image for your `cssXX.dasboard_store`.

## Deploying to Airflow

The `core.dashboards_store/tooling/depechecode/DAG.py` file describes a DAG you can leverage to deploy your dashboards to Airflow. You can copy the file in your `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo and update the `DAG` object to match your deployment needs. 

Alternatively, you can use a `cronjob`. We advise you to dockerize your ETL anyway to abstract the underlying infrastructure.

