---
title: Introduction
---

# Marts 
::alert{type="info"}
Please consult each mart's documentation to know which seeds and adapters are required by each one.
::

## What is the purpose of a Mart ?

A data mart is like a specialized branch of the main data warehouse tree. It's a smaller, more focused collection of data that is designed to serve the needs of a specific group of users or a specific business function. Think of it as a departmental store within the larger mall of your data warehouse.

The **dashboards store** compute all sorts of information about your schoolboards, from human resources to students data. Now, imagine the human resources department needs quick access to human-resources-related data without navigating through the entire warehouse. That's where a data mart comes in handy. It's a subset of the main warehouse, tailored to the specific requirements of one or several team, making their data retrieval faster and more efficient.

So, in short, a data mart is like a mini-warehouse, customized to meet the unique needs of a particular group or business function.

## Which marts are available ?

For now, we have got the two following marts :
* The **educational services** mart : it gathers all data and indicators related to students, such as the definition of various students population, the students' attendance, the students' grades and the whatnots 
* The **human resources** mart : it gathers all data and indicators related to human resources, such as the definition of various employment codes, the employees' seniority, the employees'attendance as well as history of employees' jobs.

## How to configure a mart ?
::alert{type="info"}
Once configured, do **not forget** to enable the mart. Nothing will be build otherwise. Refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information.
::

To configure a mart, you will mainly need to implement it's adapters and populate it's seeds. Each mart's page lists the required seeds and adatpers.