---
title: Educational service
---

::alert{type=info}
**Mandatory seeds and adapters.** Please, refer to the [seeds and adapters' documentation](/using/configuration/adapts-seeds) to get information about the way a seed or an adapter schould be implemented.
::

# Seeds

There is no mandatory seeds for the educational service mart.

# Adapters

## Mandatory adapters
::alert{type=warning}
Theese `adapters` must be populated for the ETL to work.
::

::alert{type=success}
If you have spined up your store using the `cookiecutter` template, the `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/staging/` folders already contains pre-populated adapters to help you getting started. You just have to update the `sql` files with your own business rules.
::


The next table show the required adapters's definition and the path where the `sql` schould be put.

| Adapters's yaml definition's path | Where to save it |  name of the adapter to implement |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `core.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/adapters.yml` | `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/educ_serv/staging/populations/*.sql` | stg_ele_prescolaire, stg_ele_primaire_reg, stg_ele_primaire_adapt, stg_ele_secondaire_reg, stg_ele_secondaire_adapt |

::alert{type=warning}
Please, refer to the [adapters's documentation](/using/configuration/adapts-seeds) to get information about the way an adapter schould be implemented.
::

### Population adapters

In order to build your population, you must define for each population the business rules for the previous years, including the current year, and for the forecast year. 

It must be taken into account that the 'Groupe-Repere' data cannot be used for the forecast year as it's not available until the end of the current year. You need to analyze which data you can use to ensure the veracity of the data. We recommend using the 'distribution' data, if possible, for the forecasted year.



## Adding custom populations to the default one

::alert{type=warning}
Using custom populations is optional. If you don't provide any custom ones, the ETL will use the default (mandatory) ones.
::


In your `cssXX.dashboards_store`:
1. Create as many `.sql` files as you have custom populations. Thoose file schould have the same columns as the `custom_fgj_population.sql` files.
2. Override the `custom_fgj_population.sql` and replace it with a script to `UNION` all of your newly created populations files.

::alert{info}
Please read avout [overriding](/using/configuration/overriding) if you are new to the concept.
::
