---
title: Transport
---

::alert{type=info}
Get operational data about the Transport system of the school board. KPI include the number of circuits per parcours, etc..
::

::alert{type=warning}
An `adapter` must be implemented in your cssXX.data.store repo for the dashboard to work.
:: 


# Deployment
:badge[tag:transport]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.7.0]

## Databases

The `transport` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.

## Populating the `adapter`
> This dashboard requiers the specification of the source file in your `cssXX.dashboards_store` project.

The source's code must be populated in `cssXX.dashboards_storee/models/dashboards/transport/staging/stg_sectors.sql` and as per the definition of the `core.dashboards_store/models/dashboards/transport/adapters.yml` file. Your file must be aliased to `stg_sectors` : to do so, please, add the following config cartouche at the top of your file.

```sql
{{ config(alias='stg_sectors') }}
```

Please refer to the `core.dashboards_store/models/dashboards/transport/adapters.yml` file to get the concrete implementation of the file. Make sure your implementation matches the one described in the file, including for the columns data types. 

## Dbt project specification
> Update your `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet.

```yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
  store:
    dashboards:
      transport: # Activate the dashboard
          +enabled: True
    interfaces:  # Active the geobus source
        geobus:
          +enabled: True
```