---
title: Active employees
---

::alert{type=info}
This dashboard list the active employees of the CSS. It is used to compute the number of employees in the CSS.
:: 

# Deployment
:badge[tag:empl_actif]{type="success"}
:badge[new in v0.8.0]


## Databases

The `paie` database must be linked to the project. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information about how to link a database.


## Marts 

The following marts must be enabled for the dashboard to work. Please refer to the [enabling a mart](/using/configuration/enabling) section for more information about how to enable a mart.
* `human_resources`


## Dbt project specification
> Update your `cssxx_store/dbt_project.yml` file with the following snippet.

```yaml
# cssxx.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
  store:
    marts:
      human_resources:
        +enabled: True  
    dashboards:
      emp_actif:
        +enabled: True #  Enable the models from the core repo
      interfaces: # Enable the paie interface
          paie:
              +enabled: True
```

## Customizing the state and status of the employees
> This table needs some seeds. Make sure to run `dbt seed --full-refresh` to populate the seeds.

* To add a list of in-house courses to be tracked :
  1. Add the `.csv` files in your `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/marts/human_ressources` folder. The file must be named `etat_empl.csv`. The file must be populated with the colums described in `/core.data.tbe/seeds/marts/human_resources/schema.yml` (refers to the `etat_empl` seed). You might want to use the `pai_tab_etat_empl` table to find the appropriate mapping.

  2. Trigger a refresh of your seeds 

```bash
dbt seed --full-refresh
```
::alert{type=info}
Please refer to the [seeds](/using/marts/seeds) section for more information about how to use and populate seeds.
::

## A double yolk egg : using the Report builder: empl_actif.rdl

An SSRS report is available to export the list of active employees of the schoolboard. The `emp_actif.rdl` can be found in a `core.dashboards_store/reporting/emp_actif/emp_actif.rdl`