---
title: Linking the databases
---

::alert{type="danger"}
Databases accessed by the Store / ETL schould be pseudo-anonymized. It's not mandatory, but it's highly recommended, as analytical workloads usually doesn't requirs the use of personal information ;) 
::

# How to link the databases ?
> The `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` exposes a `databases` section in witch you will populate the databases names of the db you want to link the store to.

Basically the process, to add a database goes as :
1. Open the `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file.
2. Replace the database's placeholder with **Fully Qualified Name** database name.


```yaml
# cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
vars:
    database_bi: Bi distribution's FQN 
    database_paie: GHRPAIE's FQN
    database_gpi: GPI's FQN 
    database_jade: JADE's FQN
```

## What's the FQN of my database ?

::alert{type="warning"}
The FQN **is case-sensitive**
::

The FQN of a database, is the string you would use to reference the database in a SQL query.

```sql
SELECT * 
FROM server.database.schema.table
```

Here, `server.database` is the FQN of the **database**.

When the database is colocated on the same server you are running your query from, the `server` can be dropped. The FQN of the database is then simply `database`.


So if the database you want to add, is colocated on the same server as `store` and `store_dev`, use the database name. If the database you want to link lives in a far, far away linked server, the FQN is the concatenation of the **linked server** name, the dot (`.`) and the **database**'s name.

The database name will be interpolated at runtime in the `interfaces` SQL files fetching information from this database.

The next code block showcase a configuration of `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` with a colocated `GRHPAIE` database, and a `GPI` database accessed through a linked server.

```yaml
vars:
    # The source database to pull the data for a css.
    database_paie: "paie" # The DB is colocated, so a direct reference is enough
    database_gpi: "[dataserver/IA].[gpi]" # The GPI database lives on the linked server "dataserver/IA"
```

# The "My mommy says I'm special" section : I'm using Azure SQL Server 

Azure SQL server does not support linked server. Worst. Azure SQL database has troubles with between-databases communications. In that case, the data must be pulled from the source database to the store's database, in a dedicated schema. You can either use a tool like Airbyte or Fivetran to move the data, or you can overide the `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/interfaces` models to add a call to the `stage_external` macro. The `stage_external` macro, relays on the creation of an `EXTERNAL` table in the store's database. It's basically the iddespicable child of a linked server and a view.

TODO : add documentation.

