---
title: Adapters and seeds
---

# Configuring the Adapters and Seeds

::alert{type="warning"}
**Seeds** and **adapters** are **contracts** defined by the `Core` and **implememented** by the `cssXX.dasboards_store` project. If you don't implement them, the ETL will fail. Please refer to the Marts documentation to know which seeds and adapters are required by each one.
::

Both the `human_resources` and the `education_services` marts use **adapters** and **seeds** to configure the ETL. As explained in the "Architecture" page, both are used to provided Schoolboards-specific business rules to the ETL. **Seeds** are **csv** files used to create dimensions later used to filter or map data. **Adapters** are **SQL** files with arbitrary SQL used to create dimensions or facts. We tend to prefer seeds over adapters as they are easier to maintain and to understand. But sometimes, you just need to write some SQL like it's the 80's again.

## Seeds

### Implementing a seed
::alert{type="info"}
The `Core` provide you with the seed's definition. It's up to you to populate-it. The seed definition is located in the `core.dashboards_store/seeds/**/*/schema.yml` project, in the `data` folder.
::

To implement a seed, you have to create a `csv`, with columns as per the seed's definition. The `csv` file must be located in the `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/**/*/data` folder. The `csv` file must be named as per the seed's definition. The definition file gives a lot of information about the expected types of the seed's column, as well as a description of each field to help you populating it. Seeds schould be put under the same path as the one used by the seeds's definition yaml.

Once populated, you can load in the database and test the seed with the command : 

```bash
dbt build --full-refresh --select <the name of the seed>
```

### Exemple :

Let's say I want to implement a seed named `exemple_seed` and defined by `core.dashboards_store/seeds/marts/exemple/schema.yml`.
The content of the `schema.yml` file is :

```yaml
seeds:
  - name: exemple_seed
    description: >
      This is the exemples seed. 
      This seed is a completely useless seed. It consists of a set any integer you can think of.
    # The fields' description
    columns:
      - name: seq_value
        description: The random integer
        tests:
          - not_null  # Null values are not allowed
          - unique  # The integer must be unique
    # The seed's data type
    config:
      column_types:
        value: int
```

I first create an empty `csv` and save-it under `cssXX.dashboards_store/seeds/marts/exemple/exemple_seed.csv`. Note that the seed is saved in the `cssXX` project folder, **not** in the `core` project. The name of the file is the one indicated in the second line of the seed's definition (*exemple_seed*).
From the seed definition, I know that my implementation schould have only one column named `seq_value` filled with a set of unique, not null, integers. I can now populate the `csv` file with the following content :

```
seq_value
1
2
3
4
6
7
9
```

I then load, and test, my seed in the database. A table will be automatically created and populated with the content of the `csv` file. The table will be named `exemple_seed`. To do so, I just enter the following command : 

```bash
dbt build --full-refresh --select exemple_seed
```

## Adatpters

### Mandatory adapters
::alert{type=warning}
Theese adapters must be populated for the ETL to work.
::

The next table show the required adapters's definition and the path where the `sql` schould be put.

### Implementing an adapter
::alert{type="info"}
The `Core` can only provide you with the adapter's definition only. The concrete implementation is usually quite specific to your schoolboard.
::

Adatpers are described in the `adapters.yml` files. Thoose files are located in the `core.dashboards_store/adapters/**/*/adapters.yml` project.

To implement an adapter, you have to create a `sql` file, with arbitrary SQL. The `sql` file schould be saved under in `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/**/*/<adapter_name>.sql` folder. The exact path file's path schould be the one from the definition `yml` suffixed by the name of the adapter.  The `sql` file must be named as per the adapter's definition. 

The definition file gives a lot of information about the expected types of the seed's column, as well as a description of each field to help you populating it. Please refer to the definition file to get the column specification and description.

We try to add a dbt `analysis` as an exemple of how to implement an adapter. When available, the analysis is saved under `core.dashboards_store/analysis/**/*/<adapter_name>.sql`  where `**/*/<adapter_name>.sql` is the path from the adapter's definition file. The analysis is named as per the adapter's definition.


### Exemple :

Let's say I have to implement the `stg_ele_prescolaiore` adapter. This adapter is defined in `core.dashboard_store/models/marts/education_services/adapters.yml`. The adapter's definition is :

```yaml
# core.dashboards_store/models/marts/education_services/adapters.yml
sources:
  - name: populations
    description: >
      The populations identify groups of students with consistent profiles, such as regular students, students in special education or students in general adult education.
    schema: "{{ target.schema }}_educ_serv_staging"
    tables:
      - name: stg_ele_prescolaire
        description: >
          Identification of the population in 4-year-old kindergarten / passe partout / 5-year-old kindergarten.
        columns:
          - name: code_perm
            description: The specific unique identifier for a student
          - name: id_eco
            description: The specific unique identifier for a school by year
          - name: annee
            description: The years the student was active

models:
  - name: stg_ele_prescolaire
    config:
      schema: "educ_serv_staging"
      <<: *x-common-tags
    description: >
      Identification of the population in 4-year-old kindergarten / passe partout / 5-year-old kindergarten.
    tests:
      - resolution:
          combination_of_columns:
            - code_perm
            - id_eco
            - annee
```

1. I first create a file under `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/education_services/stg_ele_prescolaire.sql`. Note that the file is created in `cssXX` with the same name as the one in the definition file.
2. I then check for the definition :
   1. From the definition (`source` key), I know that the adapter schould have the three columns : `code_perm`, `id_eco`, `annee`
   2. From the definition (`models` key), I know the table schould pass a resolution test on the three columns, meaning that my table schouln't have any duplicate on the three columns.
3. I then check under the `core.dashboards_store/analysis/marts/education_services/stg_ele_prescolaire.sql` file to see if there's an analysis available. In this case, there's one. I copy-paste the analysis in my `sql` file, to bootstrap the adapter's implementation.


```sql
-- cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/education_services/stg_ele_prescolaire.sql
select distinct ele.code_perm, eco.id_eco, eco.annee
from {{ ref("i_gpm_e_dan") }} as eledan
left join {{ ref("i_gpm_t_eco") }} as eco on eledan.id_eco = eco.id_eco
left join
    {{ ref("i_gpm_e_ele") }} as ele on eledan.fiche = ele.fiche
    /*WHERE 
    eledan.statut_don_an = 'A' AND (
        (
            eledan.ordre_ens = '1'
            AND eledan.grp_rep IN ('MA4','MA5','M41','M42')
        )

        OR (
            eledan.ordre_ens = '2'
            AND (eledan.grp_rep NOT LIKE '9%' OR eledan.grp_rep IS NULL)
            )
    )*/
```

4. I then fine tune (or completely rewrite) the code I have just copy past to match my Schoolboard's reality.

