---
title: Enabling a resource
---

# Why do I need to enable something ?

By default, the Store won't materialize anything. You need to enable the models you want to materialize. We do this to avoid materializing data you don't need : if you are interested by only one dashboard of the store, then you don't need to materialize the whole store.

# How to enable a resource ?
> Resource schould be understand as a set of tables required by a dashboard, as a whole mart or as a unique `.sql` file.

::alert{type="info"}
The `+enabled: True|False` is a DBT's mechanism to enable and disable resources. You schould read the [DBT's documentation](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/enabled) to learn more about it. It also works for **tests** and **seeds**. 
::

Enabling a model is done throught the `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` file. To enable a model, simply open the `dbt_project.yml` file, find the name of the resource you wan't to enable, and switch the `+enabled: false` key to `+enabled: true`. 

## Exemple

### Enabling a mart

I have added my seeds to the human resources mart and now want to enable it. 

1. I first open my `cssXX.dashboards_data/dbt_project.yml` and look for the `human_resources` resource. I find the following :

```yaml
models:
    store:
        marts:
            human_resources:
                +enabled: False 
```

2. I then toogle the `+enabled: False` to `+enabled: True` :

```yaml
models:
    store:
        marts:
            human_resources:
                +enabled: True
```

3. ...aaaaand it's done.

### Enabling a dashboard

Let's say I wan to enable the `chronic_absenteism` dashboard 

1. I first open my `cssXX.dashboards_data/dbt_project.yml` and look for the `chronic_absenteism` resource. I find the following :

```yaml
models:
    store:
        dashboards:
            chronic_absenteeism:
                +enabled: False
```

2. I then toogle the `+enabled: False` to `+enabled: True` :

```yaml
models:
    store:
        dashboards:
            chronic_absenteeism:
                +enabled: True
```


### Enabling an interface
::alert{type="info"}
To enable an interface, the database must be linked. Please refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information.
::

Let's say I need to enable the `paie` interface to materialize the HR mart.

1. I first open my `cssXX.dashboards_data/dbt_project.yml` and look for the `paie` resource. I find the following :

```yaml
models:
    store:
        interfaces:
            paie:
                +enabled: False
vars:
    database_paie: "replaceMeWithYourDatabase" 
```

2. I then replace the `database_paie` variable with the name of my database (refer to the [linking a database](/using/configuration/linking) section for more information) :

```yaml
vars:
    database_paie: "dataServer.paie"  # The database's name in the warehouse. It will be interpolated in the Interface layer. 
```

3. I then toogle the `+enabled: False` to `+enabled: True` :

```yaml
models:
    store:
        interfaces:
            paie:
                +enabled: True
vars:
    database_paie: "dataServer.paie"  
```

## Between resources dependencies

A common error, is to enable a model without enabling it's dependencies :
* For **marts**, it means enabling a mart, without enabling the `interfaces` it depends on.
* For a **dashboard** it means enabling a dashboard without enabling the marts it's built upon.

::alert{type="warning"}
The dashboards and marts pages usually specifies their dependencies. When enabling such a resource, make sure you also enable it's upstream dependencies.  
::
