---
title: Overriding
---

# I can do better, let's override !

::alert{type=info}
Understanding the DBT concept of `resrouce-path` is crucial to override a resource. Please check [the doc](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/resource-path) if the concept is new to you.
::

## What is overriding ?

The `core.dashboards_store` only provides a reasonable default implementation. Maybe, you wan't to add a KPI to a dashboard, or change part of an SQL script. You can do so by overriding the default implementation. **Everything** is overridable. So don't be shy and make the Store your own.

## Where does overriding happen ?

Overriding **always** happens in your `cssXX.dashboards_store` project. Do not manually edit the `core.dashboards_store` project as doing so will make version bumping a hellish nightmare.

## How to override.

To override a script named `override_me_plz.sql`, you need to :

1. Create, in `cssXX.dashboards_store` a file named `override_me_plz.sql`
   - You probably schould mirror the folder structure of the file you are overriding.
2. Tell dbt **not** to use the core implementation of `override_me_plz.sql` by adding the following snippet in your `dbt_project.yml` file :

```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
<models|seeds|tests>: # Choose the resource's key you want to override
  core_dashboards_store:
    <path_to_resource>: # The path to the resource you want to override, one key per part
      override_me_plz:
        +enabled: False
```

::alert{type=warning}
`<models|seeds|tests>` : use `models` when overriding a model, `seeds` when overriding a seed, and `tests` when disabling or overriding a test.
::

# Exemple

## Overriding a SQL script

Let's say that I want to override the file defined in `core.dashboards_store/models/marts/human_resources/features/retirement/fact_retirement.sql` :

1. I first create a file named `fact_retirement.sql` in `cssXX.dashboards_store/models/marts/human_resources/features/retirement/fact_retirement.sql` populated with my own custom implementation.
2. I then add the following snippet in my `dbt_project.yml` file :

```yaml
#cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml
models:
  core_dashboards_store:
    marts:
      human_resources:
        features:
          retirement:
            fact_retirement:
              +enabled: False
```

When running DBT, my own definition will be used as a drop-in replacement for the core implementation.
