---
title: Introduction
---

# What is the Dashboards Store ?

::alert{type="info"}
✨ The **Dashboards store** is a collection of both PowerBi dashboards and SQL scripts that can be used to quickly leverage a schoolboard's data warehouse.
::

## What's included ?

The store gather together : 
* ⌨️ The **SQL code** to transform the data from your databases.
* 📊 The **PowerBi dashboards** to visualize the transformed data.

The two go hand in hand : metrics and business rules, written or computed in SQL can be reused accross multiple dashboards, providing a uniformed and consistent view of your data.

::alert{type="info"}
Not all schoolboards are created equals, you might not have a need for some of the dashboards offered by the store, or you might want to add your own. **The store is fully customizable**, you can add your own SQL scripts and dashboards, or modify the existing ones through **overriding**. The Store is just the start ! 
::

## Who are we targeting ?
The Store aims at the French Canadian schoolboards, but can be used by any schoolboard that uses the same data model. BI Analysts, Dev-Bi and Data Engineers will find the Store useful, as it provides a solid foundation to build upon. You will need to know about SQL, Linux and Git to use the Store. Thoose are frightening technologies, but we will probably die before them, so we schould as well learn them.

## On the schoulders of giants

The Store is built on top of the best tools available in the opensource community. The cornerstone of the Store is [DBT](https://docs.getdbt.com/), a data transformation tool that allows you to write SQL code and make you feel like it's something modern ! By using **DBT**, you not only get a modern and easy to use SQL syntax, but you also get a free way of **documenting**, **testing**, and **scheduling** your transformations. If you miss `JUnit`, you'll love **DBT**.

## Fully open source

The Store is deeply rooted in the opensource community, and is itself opensource. We believe that the best way to build a great product is to build it with the users (but maybe not *listen* to them. Thoose guys are nuts). We are always looking for contributors (I mean, *someone* as to solve my bugs). 

## In the docs, no one will hear you scream

But you can always give us a call or email us. At Sciance, we offer services to help you **deploy the Store**, **build custom dashboards**, and automate it. We also offer training and support to help you get the most out of your data. If you are interested in learning more about our services, please contact us at either of the following email addresses: juhel.hugo@sciance.ca or emarcotte.sciance.ca. 
