---
title: A Tale of Two Repos
---

# Two repos, one goal ! 

> When I was a child, my mother used to tell nice bedtime stories. My favorite one was the **The Tale of Two Repos**. It goes like this :
> 
> "Once upon a time, in the CdeP, a little `core.dashboards_store` repo was born. The repo tried very hard to provide ETLs for all the schoolboards at once. But the schoolboards were many and the SQL capabilites to retrofit itself to a schoolboard's context were few. So the `core.datashboards_store` repo decided to split itself into many little repos, one for each schoolboard. And the `cssXX.dashboard_store` repo was born. And the `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo was granted the power to override anything from `core.datashboards_store`. And the `core.dashboards_store` repo was happy. And the `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo was happy. And the CdeP was happy. And they all merged develop into master happily ever after."


The moral of the story is that the `core.dashboards_store` repo is the parent repo of all of the `cssXX.dashboards_store` repos. The `core.dashboards_store` repo contains all the ETLs that are common to all of the CSS. The `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo contains everything that is **specific** to cssXX, **including, if needed, some SQL files overriding the ones in the core.** 

If you have already been exposed to Object-Oriented Programing, the `core.dashboards_store` repo is the parent class providing overridable methods, and the `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo is the child class, that might want to override some of the parent's methods.

::alert{type="info"}
You will ALWAYS need two repos to work with the Store. The `core.dashboards_store` containing everything that is shared between the schoolboards, and your own custom `cssXX.dashboards_store` implementing what can't be shared, such as the way to identify students enrolled in an adapted program.
::

::alert{type="warning"}
When integrating the store to your schoolbard, all modifications you do (overriding, enabling, implementing an adapter, populating a seed), schould take place from inside the `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo. The `core.dashboards_store` repo schould never be modified as it is shared between all the schoolboards.
::

# Cloning the repo

::alert{type="warning"}
The two repos are to be cloned in the same directory, the `<working directory>` of your choice. If not, you will have to change the `cssXX.dashboards_store/packages.yaml` to reflect the new path.
::

## Bootstraping a working dashboards Store

::alert{type="warning"}
In order to clone the repo through SSH, you will need a properly set-up **github account**. Your local public key must be added to your Github account. If you don't have one, you can follow [this guide](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh) to create one. Make sure to follow the Linux instructions if you are using either WSL2 or Linux server.
::

1. Start by cloning the Core :
  
```bash
git clone git@github.com:Sciance-Inc/core.dashboards_store.git
```

2. Create a `Poetry / Virtualenv` from the Core. This will install every Python packages you need, including DBT.

```bash
cd core.dashboards_store
poetry shell && poetry install --no-root  # The --no-root might not be needed, depending of your Poetry's version [#38](https://github.com/Sciance-Inc/core.dashboards_store/issues/38)
```


3. Bootstrap a new `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo from the Core's template
::alert{type="info"}
You will be prompted for informations
::
```bash
cd ../ # To return a t
cookiecutter core.dashboards_store/tooling/template
```

4. Let's follow the best practices and use git to the repo you have just created

```bash
git init
git remote add origin <your remote's url>
git add .
git commit -m "feat: one commit to initiate them all, one commit to rule them all, one commit to bring them all and in the gitness bind them, in the land of Github where the bugs lie."
git push -u origin master
```

5. Go read the `cssXX.dashboards_store/README.md` to learn more about the post-configurations steps required to have everything working.


# What did I just do ?

If everyhting worked well, you schould have the following directory structure :

```bash
<working directory>
├── core.dashboards_store
└── cssXX.dashboards_store
```

Both subfolders schould contains git-ready DBT projects.

::alert{type="info"}
Starting from now, `<working directory>` will always design the path to the folder containing the two repos (unless mentioned otherwise)
::
