---
title: Database connection
---

# "You know nothing" : can we start from the basics ?
For now, we haven't connected the Store to the database. To connect the Store to the database and start materializing our views and tables, we need to tell DBT where to look for the database credentials and connection information. We do this by creating a `dbt_profile.yml` file.

## What the heck is a  `dbt_profile.yml` ? 

::alert{type="info"}
tl;dr : DBT uses a `dbt_profile.yml` file saved under `~/.dbt/dbt_profile.yml` to store the connection information to the database. The database's IP and user credential, live tin the `dbt_profile.yml` file.
::

The need for a DBT profile file arises from the fact that dbt needs to know where your data is stored, how to connect to it, and other configuration details. By having a centralized configuration file, you can manage these settings in one place and switch between different environments (e.g., development, production) without modifying your dbt models.

Tere are some key elements you might find in a DBT profile file:
1. Database Connection Details: It includes information such as the type of database (e.g., BigQuery, Snowflake, Redshift, SQL Serve), host, database name, schema, and authentication details.
2. Profiles: You can define multiple profiles within the file, allowing you to switch between different environments or data warehouses easily.

In summary, the DBT profile file is essential for configuring and connecting dbt to your data warehouse, streamlining the data transformation process.

This file is **not** located in the project itself, because it contains credentials we don't want exposed through git. Instead, it's usually located in the `~/.dbt` folder. 

## How does DBT know wchich profile to use ?

::alert{type="info"}
tl;dr : The `profile` key, at the top of `cssXX.dashboards_store/dbt_project.yml` refers to the name of the profile you want to use from the  `~/.dbt/dbt_profile.yml` file. 
::

When you run dbt commands in a specific project, dbt determines which profile to use based on the configuration specified in the `profiles.yml` file. The `profiles.yml` file is typically located in the `~/.dbt/` directory.

Here's how dbt knows which profile to use for a specific project:

1. **Default Profile:**
   - If you have a single profile in your `profiles.yml` file, dbt will use that profile by default. This is the case when you only have one environment or data warehouse connection.

2. **Project Configuration:**
   - In the `dbt_project.yml` file within your dbt project directory, you can specify the profile to use for that specific project using the `profile` key. If this key is not set, dbt will use the default profile from the `profiles.yml` file.

Example `dbt_project.yml`:
```yaml
name: my_project
version: 1.0

profile: my_custom_profile
```

In this example, dbt would use the profile named "my_custom_profile" for the "my_project" project.

By providing the profile information in either the `DBT_PROFILE` environment variable, the `--profile` command-line flag, or the `dbt_project.yml` file, you can instruct dbt on which profile to use for a specific project.

## What the difference between a `profile` and a `target` ?

In the context of dbt, a profile and a target serve different purposes:

1. Profile:

    * A dbt profile is a configuration file named profiles.yml that contains information about your data warehouse connection.
    * It includes details such as the type of database (e.g., BigQuery, Snowflake, Redshift), host, database name, schema, and authentication details.
    * You can define multiple profiles within the profiles.yml file, allowing you to configure connections for different environments (e.g., development, production).
    * Profiles are mainly concerned with specifying how dbt connects to a data warehouse.
    * **The dashboards_store, schould only use one profile**

1. Target:
    * A dbt target is a specific environment or deployment of your dbt project.
    * Targets are configurations for running dbt commands in a specific context, such as development or production.
    * Targets are often specified using the --target flag when running dbt commands, allowing you to switch between different environments easily.
    * Targets can reference specific profiles within the profiles.yml file, allowing you to use different data warehouse connections for different environments.
    * In summary, a profile is the overall configuration for connecting dbt to a data warehouse and is defined in the profiles.yml file. A target, on the other hand, is a specific configuration for running dbt in a particular context or environment, and it can reference a specific profile. Targets help you manage and switch between different deployment environments for your dbt project.


# Got it. I need a profile. Can you help me get started ?
::alert{type="success"}
Configuring a profile can be cumbersome. Hopefully, when you bootstraped the `cssXX.dashboards_store`, you *actually* created a `profiles.yml` sample that's almost ready to use.
::

When you bootstraped the `cssXX.dashboards_store`, you were prompted for some information : 
* What's your database IP ?
* What's your database port ?
* What is your password ?

Thoose information were used to render a `profiles.yml` file, that you can find under `cssXX.dashboards_store/profiles-sample.yml`.

You now need to populate and move your `profiles-sample.yml`. You can do so by :
1. Adding your user's database password to connect to the database : edit the `profiles-sample.yml` file, and replace the `password: dontLookAtMeImSecret` with your user's actual password.
2. Move the `profiles-sample.yml` to `~/.dbt/profiles.yml` : 

```bash
mv profiles-sample.yml ~/.dbt/profiles.yml
```

::alert{type="danger"}
If you have already used DBT, and have an existing `~/.dbt/profiles.yml`, just copy the content of the `profiles-sample.yml` to your existing `~/.dbt/profiles.yml`.
::

# Why do I have three targets in my `profiles.yml` ?

## Developping
You can see a target as an `environnement`. Targets allow DBT to handle the different environments you might have. The `profiles.yml`'s default target is `dev`. Dev is configured to use your own name as a schema, and is the target you will mainly use to develop your models. Since it's using your name as a base `database schema` every table you materialize and any code modification you do, won't alter other peoples owns materialization of the same project, since their materialization will live in the `dev` schema, prefixed by their name. By using `targets`, you can all work on the same project, on the same database, without stepping on each other's toes.

## Staging and production
The `profiles.yml` contains two other profiles : 
1. **staging** : The staging profile is used to test your code before deploying it to production. It's a good practice to test your code before deploying it to production, since you don't want to break your production database. The staging profile is configured to use the `dbo` schema in the `store_dev` database. You can use the staging schema to run your code at night, and preview it before actually runing against the production database.
2. **prod** : The prod profile is used to deploy your code to production. It's configured to use the `dbo` schema in the `store` database. You schouldn't explicetely use it unless you know what you are doing.

Ideally, your unreleased **Power Bi** dashboards schould be plugged to the `staging` environnement, and your released **Power Bi** dashboards schould be plugged to the `prod` environnement. By doing so, you can test and try some modifications to the dashboards / scripts without actually affecting your end users.

# What about to ETLs that generate the data automatically ?
Well for these, every CSS will need to take their own `profiles.yml` and copy it into their `cssXX.dashboards_store` repo. By doing so, the bash script running the ETLs will use that `profiles.yml` instead of the one in the `~/.dbt/` folder.

## Why not use the original profiles.yml ?
That's a fair question. Think about what you read earlier. In that `profiles.yml`, you need to define a profile and different targets for **YOUR** repo. When it comes to the ETLs, every `cssXX.dashboards_store` are at the same location and each one of them has its own profiles and targets, which means that the `profiles.yml` must contain the profiles and targets of every `cssXX.dashboards_store`. With all that being said, here's what your `profiles.yml` should look like :
```yaml
cssxx_profile_name:
  target: dev
  outputs:
    dev:
      type: sqlserver_or_fabric
      driver: 'ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server'
      server: 0.0.0.0 #IP adress for localhost
      port: port_used_on_distant_server #Ask your ETL manager to give you the port
      database: tbe_dev
      schema: philippe_dbo
      user: "{{ env_var('SQL_USERNAME') }}"
      password: "{{ env_var('SQL_PASSWORD') }}"
      trust_cert: True
    prod:
      type: sqlserver
      driver: 'ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server'
      server: 0.0.0.0 #IP adress for localhost
      port: port_used_on_distant_server #Ask your ETL manager to give you the port
      database: tbe
      schema: dbo
      user: "{{ env_var('SQL_USERNAME') }}"
      password: "{{ env_var('SQL_PASSWORD') }}"
      trust_cert: True
```

You will need to give the username and the password of the user that needs to access your sql server to your ETLs manager, otherwise he won't be able to use the informations as environment variables.